DOC-9214 udfs for query (#2513)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/guides/pages/javascript-udfs/creating-javascript-udf.adoc

= Creating a Javascript UDF
:description: Using the Couchbase Query Workbench to create a user-defined function written in Javascript
:page-pagination: 
:page-edition: Enterprise Edition
:page-topic-type: guide
:page-toclevels: 2

[abstract]
{description}

== Introduction

> We're going to introduce a number of new concepts in this example:

Reviewer: How-to guides shouldn't be introducing concepts. That kind of thing should go into a conceptual topic.

Reviewer: Well, to be clear, how-to guides don't shy away from describing concepts completely. Otherwise users would be flipping back and forth between the different pages to understand what they're doing. It's more the implicit thought behind the wording that I'm talking about: the concepts should be _introduced_ in a conceptual topic, and that topic should be linked from the how-to guide. Even if the how-to guide reiterates the concepts in brief.

Reviewer: Note that the "conceptual topic" I keep mentioning should be created as part of DOC-9256.

* Passing parameters to Javascript UDFs.
* Returning values from Javascript UDFs.

[#introduction-create-javascript-library]
== Creating a Javascript Library

> First, you need to create a library to store your Javascript functions.
> 
> Select btn:[Query] to access the Query Workbench, then select btn:[UDF] Query Workbench menu.
> 
> image::javascript-udfs/navigate-to-udf-query.png[alt="route to the user-defined functions screen"]
> 
> You are now in the User-Defined Functions screen. 
> 
> image::javascript-udfs/udf-library-screen.png[alt="user-defined functions library screen"]
> 
> To create a new function library, click on the *{plus} add function library* link in the `Javascript Function Libraries` table.
> 
> The `add library` screens is displayed.
> 
> image::javascript-udfs/add-library-screen.png[,600, alt="add screen"]
> 
> You have to give the library a name before you can save it; in this example, we've simply called it `my-library`.
> New libraries are created with a simple `add` example function to start with.
> 
> You can add your own function, such as the one given below, which will find the number of business days (weekdays) between two dates.
> 
> 
> [source, javascript]
> ----
> include::example$javascript-udfs/get-business-days.js[]
> ----
> 
> image::javascript-udfs/added-get-business-days-function.png[,600, alt="added new function"]
> 
> Now, save the library by pressing the btn:[Save] button.
> 
> Your library is created and will show up on the `Javascript Function Libraries`list.
> 
> image::javascript-udfs/my-library-list.png[]

Reviewer: First thing is, this only covers the UI. In all of the other how-to guides we've covered the UI and the programmatic methods, given that the how-to guides are aimed at developers.

Secondly, need to tighten up the wording to make it into more of a procedure than a tutorial. I've had a stab at rewording it below.

```suggestion
[{tabs}]
====
Query Workbench::
+
--
To create a library to store your JavaScript functions:

1. Select menu:Query[UDF] to display the User-Defined Functions screen.
+
image::javascript-udfs/udf-library-screen.png[alt="User-defined functions library screen"]

// no need to show images of how to select the User-Defined functions screen.
// This should be covered in the Query Workbench documentation by DOC-9596.

2. In the `Javascript Function Libraries` table, click on the *{plus} add function library* link.
+
The `add library` screens is displayed.
New libraries are created with a simple `add` example function to start with.

3. In the *Library Name* box, enter a name for the library.
+
image::javascript-udfs/add-library-screen.png[,600, alt="add screen"]

4. Enter your own JavaScript functions as required.
+ 
image::javascript-udfs/added-get-business-days-function.png[,600, alt="added new function"]

5. When you are ready, save the library by pressing the btn:[Save] button.
+
Your library is created and will show up on the `Javascript Function Libraries`list.
+
image::javascript-udfs/my-library-list.png[]

'''

For example, the function given below finds the number of business days (weekdays) between two dates.

[source, javascript]
----
include::example$javascript-udfs/get-business-days.js[]
----
--
====
```

Reviewer: Note the main difference — in a tutorial, we tell the users what to type. In a how-to guide, we tell them where the commands are, and give them examples if appropriate; but they type what they want.

Author: All this has been revamped.  Needs reviewing again.
